I wanted to go first because I thought my little presentation might become a prelude to the others in this way.
And here we are asserting the pleasures of reading.
And the fact that we have such a panel suggests
Perhaps, for many of our countrymen, it is no great pleasure to read.
I don't want to tell you that 60% of American households go year after year without ever buying a book, any book, a self-help book, or a book book.
It's also the most secret in New York that this fall has been a difficult time for publishing a mysterious book.
It is questionable whether
Reading will occupy a central place in the lives of our children and college students.
One thing I noticed, 1991, 92, when I was back in Columbia, compared to my own class, a freshman, 30 years earlier, was that these undergraduates, smart as they were, were generally, with some dad's own exception, non-obsessive readers.
They did not have a kind of tiny intellectual obsession that I remembered from the early 60s.
They may become obsessed to read with the purpose of this.
These two courses, in part, is to get them over the hump of difficulty and begins to really enjoy some of these broad, formidable works so that such that reading becomes the center of their inner life.
Now, I can speak with a certain authority of this danger of losing the pleasure of reading because I was in a rather poor state myself six or seven years ago and this thing began to generate.
So I appeared to you somewhat in the form of a redeemed sinner.
The book I saw in the following way.
It was in 1989, 1991.
I remember exactly.
and myself were reading various texts of the culture wars, this debate about the significance of the Western tradition and what I'm going to be right here.
And finding the whole affair very unsatisfactory.
Because on the left you had people saying that
books of the Western tradition and representative list, and I'll just tell you that empowered white males and disempowered everyone else.
On the right, we had people like Secretary Bennett and Shaney and other generalists in the conservative community speaking of these books as if they were part of the national armature, or Star Wars, part of the national defense, which would repel
communism, or fundamentalism, or whatever else it was that threatened the republic.
And Kat and I were like, well, what in the world?
But then you just have to do a reading Plato, Aristotle, Hegel, Recon, Marx, or Shakespeare, anyone, if you care to mention.
So I complained.
My dad is in the living room, and finally Kat, you know, says,
The guy can't bear this anymore.
Why can't you go back to school?
The comedy's on a couple of miles away.
You took those two courses.
One, a literature course, starts with Humbert.
And in those days, Andrew Duff, yes, he now is Virginia Woolf.
He has a considerable shift in history.
And the other, finally, a social theory course, if you have a place to be public, then go right up to the present.
She says, go back and take that again.
if we thought it might be a 95,000 word piece in the Atlantic monster so it's now five years later in a 200,000 word book and the reason of course is that I had open an obsession that was much larger for me personally than the outcome of a culture war and let me just try to
say that I love writing film criticism.
I love being a member of this chuggernaut about media.
I also hate it.
I'm in a state of complete ambivalence about it all the time.
And what I felt, I think,
as well as the desire to enter the culture wars in the ground up by actually reading.
I was even close to saying what they might mean to an individual reader.
But I felt back there five, six years ago, there was some sort of law that I, my head was filled with representations and images and simulacra, this thick atmosphere that surrounded all of us living in the media society, the atmosphere of second handedness.
And that I felt in some way
lost myself, that no one quite knew who I was, what was my opinion, I had opinions, I'm paid for him, but no beliefs, no attitudes, but no principles, and that I in some way lost my identity, and that possibly reading seriously would force the question of identity again.
And by identity, I do not mean it in the way that is now primarily described the trinity of race, class, gender, which has been the academic recession in humanity for the last 20 years.
I meant more like this.
Who are you?
Where do you come from?
What do you inherit from the past?
What do you take from the past?
What are you willing to die for?
What do you live for?
what do you want to give to the next generation of actors.
So, I entered 91 informally.
I didn't actually enroll.
I thought I would sit there quietly taking notes that if they tell you a general school, don't make yourself the center of the story.
But I found out I was completely irreversible.
I didn't know.
The courses are quite a piling session.
They're not electric courses.
This is their glory.
The seminars are going to make people think on their feet so they can learn how to frame an argument.
I watched them reading that.
I watched myself.
And I found out I had to trust myself and the book was trying to have an event to be something
It goes chapter after each of the major writers that I choose to write about.
I don't use all of them.
But it's something of an autobiography as well.
In other words, there was no way of keeping myself out of it, particularly because I am an amateur.
I did not speak in the impersonal voice of a great scholar, of a great literary critic.
I thought I needed to connect my life and also that I would read it.
So what I've written is
It's a kind of old-fashioned novel.
There were these novels in the 19th century known as Bildungsroman, in which typically with David Popper, young men from the provinces, unformed, would come into the metropolis and undergo certain kind of testing and formative experiences in that year's rise or same.
The red and the black, that's no good.
What I've written is a kind of film in reverse.
And then the middle-aged man goes from the metropolitan center to downtown magazine offices, where the talk is fast and slick and perhaps not all that interesting.
Finally, back to the problems is that the morning side lights uptown in Columbia, where the talk is slower and braver and more serious and, in the end, far more interesting.
I sat there in a kind of state of humiliation all year long.
I can tell you.
This is the greatest experience of my birth.
My children forgot me.
This is the greatest experience of my run of life.
And I think this is not an irrelevant comparison because I know a child was born
On this page, in England, I was having to tie myself down.
Now, it was excruciating and difficult in the practical sense, as well as spiritual, psychological, to find the time to read.
I did continue working, not only because I needed income, but because I wanted to see how
You very well just get into, you quote, normal, normal busy life.
I read it whenever I could.
I read it late at night at home.
I read it when the children were taking a bath.
I read it standing up in the New York subway surrounded by people reading John Grisham.
I was standing there holding Play-Doh.
You can't read Plato in this way, aren't we?
Because she knows very well.
Because click clicking on the wheels on the rails pushes the man just plopped along with Thatcher and they're already moving.
A man reading alone in an American home is not a person to be respected, I discovered.
I would chase
from study, the children would not come and find, they were reactive to the house.
They'd go, I was chased from study to kitchen to bedroom to nanny's room where I would sit there.
I would teach silk undergarments of hanging down over your knees, saying the cousin's confession, like an adulterous husband.
And there were many successes and many failures.
And I wanted to write this book as candidly as possible and make engagement as clear as possible.
It's not being able to play for me.
I can't even write about it.
But I also wrote about things where I admit a difficulty with the gap, which was very great.
For instance, a meeting about the Inferno.
This is before the Robert Pincus translation came out.
We had a translation which
did not catch fire for me, and I felt that the climax was stuck with a doctrinal rather than a poetic reading of the text.
And there was a moment of magic when one of the students was in the county began, we'd go to a canto, and everyone felt silent.
I don't know, this is too corny.
You can't be happy to do something in a movie.
But it did happen, and we were awed by the beauty about this.
and I would say almost be struck by how much we were missing the combination of sound and sense.
Getting almost sense was not an adequate being of the inferno.
In other cases, though, in Lattimore's concession to Homer, I find completely exhilarating.
There were breakthroughs of a personal agent.
Complication, which I discovered was why I knew, but I just found my discovery was not what it was when I was 15 or 16.
I used to sit on bed in my parents' apartment and go read for hours.
If you have a look, I'll go do two hours more later.
There's a quilt that grandma knitted.
Okay, this is red, red, green, red.
All right, back to the book.
Now, I'm sorry to say,
or at least five or six years ago, I was bound up out of my seat after 25 or 30 minutes and rushed to turn on CNN or make a telephone call or return messages.
I don't know whether this is an onset of a middle-aged attention deficit disorder or just a more active life sending up
imps of destruction from my unconscious, which would sort of engage the text that I was reading and send me off into daydreaming.
I began to accept daydreaming as the year went on as a kind of commentary on the text.
I decided it was not entirely worthless that daydreaming was something a writer should be to feel as if it was a resource of fantasy.
of any kind, even if it's self-regarding as you were what daydreaming is, has some sort of commandment of use that you grab
There were moments of defeat with the German philosophers, and Hegel, whose language is about as far from every day of American speech as you can get.
And I remember throwing a number of volumes across the room and aiming at one of the cushions on the chair on the other side of the living room, and then really picking the book out again.
And I'll tell you my breakthrough on meeting Hegel, because after the philosophy, it just became an exciting to be in the latter.
And it's very difficult to do with any book.
If you feel that you should like this and you're not, I suggest reading it aloud.
There's something hard for Americans to do, I think, because many of us are not trying to read aloud in school.
There's something that's lost.
And so we're embarrassed about it.
And my own students when they read aloud in the beginning of the year, it was a freshman, partially.
Read as if they were reading
computer manual, you know, just getting through the words.
By the end of the year, they were beginning to the conference.
They started to be combat-like in the last five-part of darkness.
It's fantastically right, you know, comradies, those things, and they came to life.
But a lot of them are very self-conscious.
They're afraid that, by reading the expression, they're getting away from it.
But if you read something recalcitrant aloud of
You hear it in a different way.
You hear it as an audience.
Hagel's introduction of the philosophy, which is one of the number of texts that were actually not fully written out, but were lecturing out at the University of Orlando when he died.
And his colleagues, students, assembled these numbers of his labor works from those.
So he meant to be read a lot, but he meant
And when I declaimed him against the sound of traffic on West End Avenue at one o'clock in the morning, and it all seemed to have a kind of incansatory splendor, and suddenly the meaning became a great deal clearer.
There is no plot here at the beginning.
Our hero cannot remember anything, and cannot concentrate, doesn't remember the Iliad in the Odyssey, which he read 30 years earlier, doesn't remember one guy himself, even.
And as I read through these two courses through the year, I've been to encounter memories which first come in a far provisional
fragmentary way, and then become flooding.
And by the end, what we get to Virginia Woolf, who blind us, and also a wonderful little boat-a-room on dome, memories are flooding in.
And the leader has obtained something like self possession, or at least a way of taking hold of himself after all these years.
And to announce that what I've had, I suppose, is a kind of therapeutic experience, but I'm thankful I've found that for a take.
But I hardly mean to suggest that these books aren't useful only for self-discovery.
They are extraordinarily powerful in a variety of ways.
I've only given you a fraction here of the kind of meanings I look for.
I'm not upset by the notion of it as a self-help book.
Only, let's say, 1,000 steps other than 12.
Education being incremental and self-knowledge is something you'd like for one sentence.
Our next reader is Blaine Schwartz, who grew up in Brooklyn and claims to have been ruined by me.
The title of her famous book.
At age three, she was discovered in her mother's kitchen reading the label on a diamond crystal kosher coarse salt box.
This event marked her as the family prodigy.
The Mozartist words were then encouraged to compose but also to perform.
She was to read the New York Times aloud for guests.
Lynn claimed though that reading was the ticket and that that entitled her to her faith in the world.
She got so high on the sensual and emotional pleasures of reading that it became a lifelong addiction.
And contrary to the ancient maxim that no girl was ever ruined by a good book, Schwarz submits herself as a vivid egg and blissfully says, it's good to be ruined in this way.
Despite the severity of her condition, she became a useful and productive citizen, turning her own words with high critical regards to her novel, including Leaving Brooklyn, Discernances in the Field, and more recently, The Fatigue Guard was drawn from her experience with chronic fatigue syndrome.
Please welcome Ms.
Survival of Irreversible Hate, of Compulsive Reading Disorder and Choice.
Hello.
It's been a special pleasure to be on this panel because I can be sure that anybody who comes to hear us really is prepared and wants to be here.
Well, I was going to say what Jean said about me.
If David Demme is a reformed sinner, I'm an underrepresented addict.
I'm not letting it be in recovery.
I have to read at least two hours a day.
It doesn't matter what area I do, I just have to be in that act because my eyes move across a line of print.
I try to organize things so that I can do this, even if it's late in the evening.
I know it's been very late, but even if I'm out and doing things, I can always read for a couple of hours for one or two.
But if I don't,
I find I'll get up at 4 or 5 in the morning, I just can't sleep.
I have this need.
Well, some people have to go to the refrigerator at 5 in the morning.
Well, I know that I just have to sit down with a book or newspaper at that hour.
If it says 4 or 5 in the morning, I try to read something dull, sort of getting back to sleep.
I won't mention what's dull, but it's embarrassing.
Usually, you get a certain...
periodicals that even always rely on.
Although, as I say in the book, you may start to read something that you think is going to result and it turns out to be fascinating.
They have old issues of, you know, natural history and things like that around the country.
And then they're wonderful.
And it doesn't depend on the content.
It depends on the voice and the degree of life and energy in the sentences.
Ruined by reading, which I, too, thought was an ancient adage, but it did not.
I found that out from, I was giving a reading from this book, and I started looking at how I got the title, and somebody came up at the end and reminded me that it was first spoken by New York's Mayor Jimmy Walker, very common voice mayor, in the 30s.
During a censorship case,
And he said, no girl was ever ruined by a book.
And this is a very physical image.
So that when the copy editors spoke in the interest of, what do we call it, gender, free, whatever, to try to change it to no person was ever ruined by a book.
It was wrong.
There were many things they tried to change.
I wrote somewhere that I generally enjoyed the
Housewives of the Arts, and they try to make it domestic.
And I thought that ball players, and they try to... well, there's no male things, anyway.
You see, the whole point is supposed to be digressive, and I'm going to read it.
I'll play how I wrote it.
I was in a state of despair
That's how I write most books.
But usually I just never remember that I had ever been there before.
I thought I didn't know anything.
You know, novelists have this problem that non-fiction writers don't, that if we don't really know anything, we should know other books.
So I didn't have to feel that I could turn to them, but I had written everything I knew.
And what would I write next?
asking about, I said, well, I do know about reading, I'll write about that.
It's a long essay, and I put in everything that I knew about reading, and through and through and through, the way you're recording, you can always have new parts and folds.
I didn't think of it as a memoir.
It was a book about reading, and I viewed my life under the aspects of reading.
So the reading sort of became an organizing principle after a while, or whatever thoughts I was having at the time.
So the book itself is a
an experiment, a certain looping.
It takes a looping path.
It's always about reading.
But I want you to know how far I can go away from the path and my experience to it.
I think of it as if anything has ever been a yo-yo champion as I was.
You know, you can do this around the world.
The third day, they were very far out, and it was like a elder gave back, but you know that you have a strange thing, or you're in control, and that's part of the past of the book.
Well, I thought I won't talk anymore about it, because I don't like the talks, because everything I say that's worth saying, I get written down.
So I'm going to read them, read those parts.
And I'll start with a couple of pages at the opening that will give you an idea of what the book is doing and how I feel about reading.
Rarely did the daily paper move me to reach out in my life.
But a recent New York Times sees older Chinese scholars, quote, illegal Buddhism has purged its appetite for folks.
Mr. Chow says, to read more is a handicap.
It is better to keep your own mind free and to not let the thinking of others interfere with your own free thinking.
I clicked this statement and placed it on the bedside table next to a pile of books I was reading or planned to read or thought I'd love to read.
The clipping is about two square inches and almost weightless.
The pile of books come nine inches high, weighing a few pounds.
Yet they face each other in perfect balance.
I am the scale on which they rest.
Lying in the shadow of the books, I have written on my reading habits.
What is it all about?
What am I doing this for?
And the classic addicts question, what is it doing for me?
Mr. Chow's serenity and independent mind of an entry book.
I would like to be fully independent, but I'm not sure my mind could be free without reading, or that the action books have on it is properly termed interference.
I suspect the interaction with the mind and the book is something more complex.
Well, this is really what I want to write about.
I can see it encompassing an intimate history in geography, the evolution of character, the shifting map of personal taste.
And what about the use of the language itself, as well as the perennial lure of narratives?
But perhaps passing an issue in such large terms only shows how enslaved I am.
Putting aside, there is no readers in arguments so far to help curb this appetite.
There's a couple of sentences I just read about shifting out of personal taste and the history of the occupiers.
I kind of lied.
They weren't in there.
This is a little note I don't want to get written.
They were not in there when I presented this manuscript, which means that I had never
about reading a book that somebody had read an essay about that I had written on this analogy to expand it.
And his editor said, well, why don't you think that somewhere in the beginning you want to say what this book is really about, if you read your clue.
I'm going to be honest.
That would be a good idea.
And so I made it because you sent it to death and the whole thing was written.
You see, sometimes these things just flowed out that way, but it's not the case.
I'm skipping ahead.
I read at an early age, three and a half, the girl upstairs taught me.
Late afternoons, we spent the blackboard in her hallway, and sheets of signs that were the same, but in an uncensored costume, as the words that came from our lips.
Once I grasp the principle of conversion, the airy puffs of voice become a visual counterpart, the rest, what teachers call breaking the code, was routine.
The world existed to be read, and I did.
Diamond crystal kosher coarse salt on a cylindrical container my mother shook over simmering pots, and red U.S.
hat off on every box in a can, as the rhythms of the pounding verses of the bigger girls chanted out on the street, twirling their jumpers.
Before I knew who I was and what I might be, I became the prodigy, the reader.
When Frank visited, my father was sung to me in happy New York Times, his finger aimed at the lead story.
Read that.
I read, though those signs had no meaning.
Sometimes the guests refused to be convinced, suspecting I had been coached by the big winners on any of the quiz shows.
I think my wife would also assume it would be a major question.
I only had a great question.
So my father would invite them to test me with any article on any page.
No four-year-old could have memorized the entire paper.
And while they marveled at my previous achievement, which seemed to exist apart from my physical being, I could return to my paper dolls.
It's my usefulness and value that my parents laid his powers to amaze, then I have to keep doing it.
Reading was the ticket that entitled me to my place in the world.
But in school there were other bright children.
Soon everyone would agree.
My ticket was fraying, sadly devalued, and I felt certainly my botanic Samson most felt shorn.
What can you do once we are ordinary?
The dress of hair for Samson's strength
It's not as arbitrary or peculiar as I once thought.
If your identity rests in special powers, you shiver without them, naked to the wind, moving to the back of your neck.
It was too late to fashion another ticket, and beside I didn't have means, irresistible charm or beauty or athletic prowess of a saint's weakness.
Could I just be here of no special use at all, simply by having been born?
I envy my blind peers to just make you think I still do.
When I stand on the platform and speak, I envy the audience who may only listen.
My father's ghost is that my shoulder is gazed not on me, but on the guests.
With a swift jerk in the head, he chuckles and says, just get a load of this.
Because I read in our facilities even magic, reading was magical, not merely breaking the code or translating one set of symbols into another.
The idea of translatability was itself magical and so pertains.
Semiotics, before it became a full-on branch of study, was the slave kind of wave of the world.
Signs and things, things and signs, layered, sometimes jumbled partners in advance of illusion.
I was reading from this book, I read in Washington, and I was managing over at the end to identify himself as a psychoanalyst, and he asked me if I was aware of the depths of anger I asked my father, who made me breathe when I was three.
And I have other things here about my father.
My buddy sent me out, I said, I've read the books to Houston.
When I was seven, he was reading me 26 cents and asked me to go to the corner and buy a cigar, Corona, Corona.
He said, I don't see you yet anymore, maybe here you can.
So, anyway, this man wanted to know if I was aware.
I thought I was aware, but, you know, under the circumstances of the book, it seemed that terrible, but he left me looking worried.
My parents, when he looked at the book, I used this phrase, ironically, in a little motif to open several sessions.
My parents were people of the book, but I did not appreciate this.
And as I started college and acquired Tim Senn's literary history, I indulged the analysts in me to reshape them to make them fit my ideal.
I was 16.
In the last gasp of identification with parents, which is often the first gasp of separation,
I want them to share in the great discovery I was marveling at, that there was literary history, that the whole fortress landscape I had been flipping through at random, pausing here and there to sniff or taste or swallow, had an order like a vast English garden.
There were maps shown in paths and byways, replete with measurements and arrows, longitude and latitudes, charts of the distances and relations between points,
I hadn't been so excited by the idea of scope and breadth since my first day of junior high school when the Western history teacher announced that there was another called the Red Song in 15th century Italy and listed its features on the blackboard.
I had never heard of the Red Song before.
Even the word Red Song was exulting, as was its companion for humanism.
I was a humanist too, I decided that very day, and let school transform.
That's how I describe how I have to reform my parents.
I pressed books on them, cajoling my humanity and proving to be moved to power.
Though they didn't often read what I urged, they took the suggestions docilely, never challenging my campaign to educate them.
I had my greatest success with the tribe.
It was not hard to get my father interested to fit marginally into his preferred category of political books.
Also, he was a lawyer and the title promised legal proceedings.
I was spending the 4th July week and blissfully alone at home while my parents were in the country.
The same old country they had gone to every summer for as long as I could remember.
My father was part of a great caravan of men driving out for the country world weekends.
So I was home alone.
But I loved best for the weekends when he disappeared and I could pretend I was living on my own.
On one of those happy evenings, I received a long-distance call.
That will be recommended, my father began with his customary of brokenness, by that Kafka, the tribe,
Yes, I said equally, did you read it?
Well, that's what I'm calling about.
Your mother and I both read it, and we have a very different opinion on what it means.
I say it's about the injustices of the legal system in the modern state, how you can get lost in the bureaucracy and rent tape and so on.
And she says, it's just about life itself, how you're always guilty about something or other, and you think you deserve to be kind of silly for being a lie.
He paused.
My heart bleached.
This was exactly what I wanted.
We should theorize this way every waking hour.
So, he said, what do you think?
My years of reading have brought forth fruit.
I was an acknowledged expert on what things meant.
Well, actually, I said in a cool, patronizing matter, I've been picked up for my professors.
You're both right.
Those interpretations aren't mutually exclusive.
The beauty of the book is that it can encompass so many appointments simultaneously.
My father was disappointed.
He liked having things one way or the other, and he liked to be right.
He had probably been counting on me, for I usually supported his tough-minded, as opposed to my mother's more humane, but a less sturdy formulation.
He argued this case for a while, then my mother got on the phone and pleaded hers, but I steadfastly refused to choose one over the other.
They must have come out the best, but I was delighted, envisioning the future transformed.
I would read them through all the Western list as I was being led, only a few steps ahead.
This never came to pass.
In the fall I rented a room near school and began growing up.
My life was no longer centered on home.
What in my parents' grades didn't read stopped mattering.
I had to learn to cook for myself.
I asked my mother about how she'd never taught me to cook.
I started reading, well, now I'm referring to the early person's book, I was going to be known as cooking influence, which is quite the comic.
As I read to me in her meat grinder, all I knew was grilled cheese sandwiches and cocoa, and I was getting a tomato sauce, tomato and onion sauce, and I was cooking during her life.
Why did she never train me in the various tasks of the arts, over which I had had such scorn?
She replied that I was always reading, and she hadn't wanted to as drunk to me.
All right, I'm going to read you the closing section of the book now.
We just have encouraged a little bit of the opening and the end.
make a long loop with things with Yo-Yo, and come back and answer your original question, which is, what does it mean?
What happens when your eye meets the print on the page?
And what is that very intimate transaction that has the ability to make this who you are?
When I began, I thought reading would transform my life, or at least teach me how to live it.
It does teach something, many things, but not what I naively expected.
In a bit of experience, snatches of the bookish wisdom do not serve.
If no girl was ever ruined by a book, none was ever saved by one either.
So what has been the point?
Not to amass knowledge, since I forget the contents of the books.
Certainly not to pass the time or kill it, as some say.
Time will kill us.
We kill time to sleep over as well as for future events as only dinner.
But after dinner we find out an effect that we must kill some more till the next event.
Plains the events of just a more dramatic means of killing.
What we are waiting for, killing times to arrive at, is death, the only event that can release us from the burden of living in time.
The other side of killing time is rushing about, going and doing in order to each moment to actively, assertively to live, merely under vow of mortality.
Reading is an activity of the moment, too.
Having read is no more palpable than the answer to this piece,
But unlike classic activities of the moment, dance or sports or sex, movement through phases, in reading the body is still.
Indeed, what can you teach us first and foremost is how to sit still for long periods and confront time head-on.
The dynamism is all inside, and it solves its spiritual exercise so utterly engaging that we forget time and mortality, along with all of life's less reward, which is simply vast in the analyzing presence.
So I see, finally, why it hardly matters whether I remember the contents of the book.
Mere information is nothing compared to this solid flurry.
The mind comes into its own, delighting in its liveness and power, its pirouettes
leaps through the ball, embraces, and trembles.
Algorithmic mere language begins with marks on a page, put there by a machine, recognizable as words.
Each one he does something script, but he cannot reason as such, except in the first days of learning how.
Still more remarkable, these inky marks generate emotion, even near the illusion of the conceiving emotion, while there's 20 who contributed the emotion.
yet it was there in advance, too, as a writer.
What if she is translucent?
The emotive powers of the book, with no local habitations, passed safely from writer to reader, unmangled by the printing and binding and shipping, renewed and available whenever we open it.
As well in the book, however remote in time and space, this imaginary being of a writer, this missing link whom no reader has ever glimpsed.
From the visit of Dickens and Wiles, you remember how they came to greet a peer by thousands of cheering readers, to today's performances, readers flock to see writers to meet the person who was given them pleasure.
Perhaps the consumers of telephone sets also hear them to meet the purveyors.
But they were certainly disappointed.
The writer in person is no more the voice behind the book than making the employee who murmurs salacious tidbits
is inclined to stir us in actual life.
Like the owner of the telephone voice, the writer is born into all fantasies.
Reading her book would fashion her image, which had the sort of existence but never in flesh to the person bearing her name.
Since the book, too, doesn't possess an independent or sensory existence, but must be open and found, we enjoy the handy power of being necessary to this life.
The real book is the print sitting inside of the frog.
We open it, and our eyes give it a kiss of regeneration.
This power is what intoxicates.
The thinking of others is not as the fear of our own free thinking, but meshes with it as blended right with recovery.
If we make those happen,
They make us happen as well.
Greetings teaches receptivity, keeps his negative capability.
It teaches us to receive the stillness and attentiveness, a voice he says temporarily on loan.
The speaker lends herself and we do the same, mutual and federalist change, like love.
Yet unlike love, we make the pure activity.
It will gain us nothing but the chances of the heart.
That's James James' phrase.
And as we grow accustomed to receiving books in stillness and attentiveness, so we can grow to receive the world, also obsessed temporarily, also enchanted in the heart.
Reading gives a context for experience, a merited context.
Not that we will now be better at what we do when the time comes, but that we will not be taken unawares or in the void.
When we are old and have everything stripped away, and wrath, the vanity of having had it, and grieving for its loss,
yet remain bound in both vanity and grief, hugging the whole rotten package to our hearts in a magic, fierce embrace, we may think, King Lear, this has happened before.
I am not in uncharted territory.
Now it's my turn in the Great Recession.
So much of a child's life has lived for others.
We learn what they want us to learn and show our learning for their gratification.
All the reading I do as a child behind closed doors
Sitting on the bed while the darkness fell around me was an active reclamation.
This, and only this, I did for myself.
This was the way to make my life my own.
Thank you.
Our next speaker is Alvaro Manguel, novelist, essayist, and translator.
He was born in Argentina, things he had more common were born in the literature.
As a teenager, Manguel met one in a one-fairy bookstore, where he worked and where he was invited to read to the blind person.
Through this experience of reading aloud, and will assure some of our sensibilities as well,
a gracious reader, a translator from Spanish, German, French, and Italian into English, and from English and French into Spanish.
He is known not only for his scholarship, but for his wide-ranging knowledge of the various genres that he has published.
And he also discussed Latin American ghost stories, European classic tales, American science fiction,
He coauthored a Dictionary of Imaginary Places, which is a guidebook to more than 1,200 villages, kingdoms, continents, and countries that have been created by the ancient Greeks down to the present day.
Manuel has worked as a book and theater critic and written Friesling Schwartz stories adapted novels and stories for radio and television in Canada.
His credits describe him as astute and original editor of anthologies, which he sees as a function of his reading.
He claims that every reader is in some measure an anthologist, a collector of what he or she likes best.
Well, against this background, or foreground, or fringe of instant online access, cyberspace, CD-ROM technology, audio world, classic text being turned into Hollywood blockbuster movies, we have not only books, but readings.
The simple, very intimate act of reading seems irreplaceable.
How did reading begin?
When did it become silent?
Who are the greatest leaders of our time?
Faith and hundreds of other questions are answered by Mr. Emmanuel in his newest book, A History of Reading.
Please welcome Albert O'Meara.